README.md, before:

# Lets-Plot Skia Frontend

[![Experimental](https://kotl.in/badges/experimental.svg)](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/components-stability.html)
[![JetBrains incubator project](https://jb.gg/badges/incubator.svg)](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/ALL/JetBrains+on+GitHub)
[![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/master/LICENSE)
[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia)](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/releases/latest)

**Lets-Plot Skia Frontend** is a Kotlin Multiplatform library that allows you to embed \
[Lets-Plot](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot) charts in a [Compose Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform) or Java Swing application.

### Supported Targets
- **Compose Desktop** (macOS, Windows, Linux)\
  For more information see [Compose multiplatform compatibility and versioning overview](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/blob/master/VERSIONING.md). 
- **Android**
- **Java Swing**

![Splash](img-2.png)

## Dependencies

- [Compose Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform) (1.6.2 or lower. 1.6.10 will be supported soon)
- [Skiko](https://github.com/JetBrains/skiko) (v.0.7.92, see notes in [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md))
- [Lets-Plot Kotlin API](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-kotlin) (v.4.8.0 and up)
- [Lets-Plot Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot) (v.4.4.0 and up)

## Using as Dependency

### Compose Desktop

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...

    // Lets-Plot Kotlin API 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-kotlin-kernel:4.7.3")

    // Lets-Plot Multiplatform 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-common:4.3.3")
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:platf-awt:4.3.3")

    // Lets-Plot Skia Frontend
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-compose:1.0.3")
}
```

### Compose Android

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...

    implementation("org.jetbrains.skiko:skiko-android:0.7.92")

    // Lets-Plot Kotlin API 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-kotlin-kernel:4.7.3")

    // Lets-Plot Multiplatform 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-common:4.3.3")

    // Lets-Plot Skia Frontend
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-compose:1.0.3")
}
```

### Java Swing

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...

    implementation("org.jetbrains.skiko:skiko:0.7.92")
    // The host OS and architecture should be specified explicitly.
    implementation("org.jetbrains.skiko:skiko-awt-runtime-macos-x64:0.7.92")

    // Lets-Plot Kotlin API 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-kotlin-kernel:4.7.3")

    // Lets-Plot Multiplatform 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-common:4.3.3")
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:platf-awt:4.3.3")

    // Lets-Plot Skia Frontend
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-swing-skia:1.0.3")
}
```

## Examples

You will find complete examples of using **Lets-Plot Kotlin API** with **Lets-Plot Skia Frontend** in the following\
GitHub repository: [JetBrains/lets-plot-compose-demos](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-compose-demos).

## Change Log

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Code of Conduct

This project and the corresponding community are governed by the
[JetBrains Open Source and Community Code of Conduct](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/ALL/JetBrains+Open+Source+and+Community+Code+of+Conduct).
Please make sure you read it.

## License

Code and documentation released under
the [MIT license](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/blob/master/LICENSE).
Copyright © 2023-2024, JetBrains s.r.o.

Commit message:

- added directory `skiko-jni-libs` for prebuilt binaries - added tasks `copyJniLibs` to copy jni libs from `skiko-jni-libs` to demo project dir using Gradle task - added task `packageSkikoJniLibs` to archive `skiko-jni-libs` for release - updated mds

README.md, after:

# Lets-Plot Skia Frontend

[![Experimental](https://kotl.in/badges/experimental.svg)](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/components-stability.html)
[![JetBrains incubator project](https://jb.gg/badges/incubator.svg)](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/ALL/JetBrains+on+GitHub)
[![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/master/LICENSE)
[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia)](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/releases/latest)

**Lets-Plot Skia Frontend** is a Kotlin Multiplatform library that allows you to embed \
[Lets-Plot](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot) charts in a [Compose Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform) or Java Swing application.

### Supported Targets
- **Compose Desktop** (macOS, Windows, Linux)\
  For more information see [Compose multiplatform compatibility and versioning overview](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/kotlin-multiplatform-dev/compose-compatibility-and-versioning.html). 
- **Android**
- **Java Swing**

![Splash](img-2.png)

## Dependencies

- [Compose Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform) (1.6.10, 1.6.11)
- [Skiko](https://github.com/JetBrains/skiko) (v.0.8.4)
- [Lets-Plot Kotlin API](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-kotlin) (v.4.8.0 and up)
- [Lets-Plot Multiplatform](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot) (v.4.4.0 and up)

## Using as Dependency

### Compose Desktop

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...

    // Lets-Plot Kotlin API 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-kotlin-kernel:4.7.3")

    // Lets-Plot Multiplatform 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-common:4.3.3")
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:platf-awt:4.3.3")

    // Lets-Plot Skia Frontend
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-compose:1.0.3")
}
```

### Compose Android

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...

    implementation("org.jetbrains.skiko:skiko-android:0.7.92")

    // Lets-Plot Kotlin API 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-kotlin-kernel:4.7.3")

    // Lets-Plot Multiplatform 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-common:4.3.3")

    // Lets-Plot Skia Frontend
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-compose:1.0.3")
}
```
Please note that due to issue [#761](https://github.com/JetBrains/skiko/issues/761) in the `Skiko` library users should use JNI libraries provided by `lets-plot-skia`. To do this:
- Remove tasks `unzipTaskX64` and `unzipTaskArm64` from `build.gradle.kts` if they are present. They extract broken JNI libs from `Skiko` artifacts.
- Create the `jniLibs` directory in `src/main`
- Download `skiko-jni-libs.zip` from [releases](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/releases) page and unzip it into the `src/main/jniLibs` directory.

### Java Swing

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...

    implementation("org.jetbrains.skiko:skiko:0.7.92")
    // The host OS and architecture should be specified explicitly.
    implementation("org.jetbrains.skiko:skiko-awt-runtime-macos-x64:0.7.92")

    // Lets-Plot Kotlin API 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-kotlin-kernel:4.7.3")

    // Lets-Plot Multiplatform 
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-common:4.3.3")
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:platf-awt:4.3.3")

    // Lets-Plot Skia Frontend
    implementation("org.jetbrains.lets-plot:lets-plot-swing-skia:1.0.3")
}
```

## Examples

You will find complete examples of using **Lets-Plot Kotlin API** with **Lets-Plot Skia Frontend** in the following\
GitHub repository: [JetBrains/lets-plot-compose-demos](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-compose-demos).

## Change Log

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Code of Conduct

This project and the corresponding community are governed by the
[JetBrains Open Source and Community Code of Conduct](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/ALL/JetBrains+Open+Source+and+Community+Code+of+Conduct).
Please make sure you read it.

## License

Code and documentation released under
the [MIT license](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-skia/blob/master/LICENSE).
Copyright © 2023-2024, JetBrains s.r.o.
